---
layout: post
title: "All Posts"
hide_date: true
hide_from_list: true
---

Here are all the posts I've written so far. I try not to write about the same things too often, but I also don't force myself to cover a wide range of topics. Actually, I don't even force myself to write in the first place, so don't expect regular updates to this site.

I won't highlight which posts I think are \"good\". That's super subjective and changes over time. It's up to you to decide, anyway. Just pick whatever you find interesting.

Posts are arranged in reverse chronological order. That being said, I think assigning dates to posts is somewhat arbitrary:

- The date I publish a post depends on what time zone you're in. Maybe I could fix this by including an exact timestamp?

- But then, what time should I use? The time I push the changes to my site? Or the time I finish writing the post?

- Actually, when do I finish writing the post, anyway? What if, some years later, I notice a small typo? Should there also be a \"last updated\" timestamp?

- But not all changes are equal! A small grammar fix shouldn't have the same weight as a full rewrite. How would I even distinguish between the two?

Maybe I'm overthinking this. Maybe I'm not. Who knows.

Anyway, here's my general system:

- The date you see for each post is _roughly_ when I finished writing the first version. It could also be when I started writing it. No hard rules for this. I just go with what feels right.

- Small mistakes will be quietly fixed. If you want, you can see the changes on my GitHub repo.

- Major updates will be noted within the post itself. I might even write a separate follow-up entirely.

- Some posts were written before this site existed.

Really, the only takeaway is that posts written years apart reflect different versions of me. That's the main thing I care about anyway: to see how I've changed over time.

Okay, you're getting bored.

---

{% for post in site.posts %}

{% unless post.hide_from_list %}

{% include post_item.html post=post %}

{% endunless %}

{% endfor %}
