---
layout: post
title: "About"
hide_date: true
hide_from_list: true
---

Hi! I'm SanguineChameleon.

This is my website, where I write about whatever I like, whenever I like.

## Personal Details

This section is here for you to decide whether or not I'm qualified to say what I say.

- I'm currently 18 years old. My pronouns are he/him.
- I'm from Vietnam, but my English is much better than my Vietnamese.
- My real name is almost impossible to pronounce, so I usually go by Kami Leon online. I don't apologize for the lame pun.
- I'm a 1st year (on summer break) CS student at the National University of Singapore. My current GPA is 5.0/5.0.
- I was a gold medalist at [IOI 2023](https://stats.ioinformatics.org/results/2023).

That's about as much info as I'll give here. If you're curious, you can stalk me further. You have my permission. Just don't show up at my house unannounced.

## Why this website?

When I was younger, I had a bad habit of permanently deleting everything I made online. I think I've reached the age where I can confidently share my thoughts and opinions, however silly they may be.

Also, before this website, I didn't have a proper place to write commentary on the things I made or the things I did. I think my writing will be useful, at least for me and my future self, if not anyone else.

That being said, this won't be a blog where I write about my daily experiences. I find that kind of journaling pretty exhausting to maintain.

Sometimes I will stumble across a stranger's blog, read a few posts, be mildly entertained, and move on. I hope someone out there has that experience with my blog.

## My Interests

Here's a list of my hyperfixations, in descending order of obsession.

### Project Euler

Project Euler is a series of mathematical and computational problems that can be solved through programming. I love challenges, and Project Euler is the perfect site for that.

There's honestly no better feeling than seeing the green tick mark whenever I solve a problem I've been stuck on for hours.

With so many problems, there will inevitably be some that I like and some that I don't. But I think all of them are a labor of love and deserve respect. That's also why I'm not listing my favorite problems: I don't have any.

Right now, I'm at Level 20, and I've solved 505 problems.

### Competitive Programming

It's no secret that I like competitive programming. I registered for a Codeforces account when I was about 10, and you could say that my life has gone downhill ever since.

While I'm really proud of my IOI gold medal, I understand that it's becoming increasingly irrelevant due to AI. Still, I think competitive programming is a fun niche.

My maximum rating on Codeforces is 2747. Currently, it's at 2347. I used to care about rating a lot, but now I enjoy the problem-solving more than the competition.

You can read more of my ramblings on Codeforces and Project Euler [here]({% post_url 2025-05-12-problem-solving %}).

### YouTube

I have a [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@SanguineChameleon) that I occasionally post videos to. I'm not a \"YouTuber\" by any means. I just post things that I make in video form. Sometimes I upload my music there.

Most of my videos are decent. A few are questionable. In the end, though, all of them are expressions of myself, and I'm fine with keeping them up online.

I go into more detail about my videos [here]({% post_url 2025-06-07-youtube %}).

### Miscellaneous

Lastly, some things that don't warrant an entire section:

- **Fan fiction**: I like reading fiction online, especially romantic slash fiction. What can I say? I like seeing people be happy.

- **Music**: My music taste is horrible and non-existent. I don't have a Spotify or anything like that. I just listen to songs on YouTube. I don't really have favorite artists, but I listen to a lot of Vocaloid/SynthV/UTAU songs. I also like listening to music that you'd find in rhythm games. And speaking of rhythm games...

- **Rhythm games**: Whenever I am bored and have nothing better to do with my life, I go to the local arcade and play a few rounds of Pump It Up. I used to be obsessed with it, but now I just play it every now and then. I also sometimes play Taiko no Tatsujin and maimai.

## Contact Me

Despite having a reasonable online presence, I realize I don't actually have any easy points of contact. I don't like using social media, and I only have accounts on sites that require one to view their content. Please don't contact me on those sites.

However, feel free to send me a friend request on Discord at `@sanguinechameleon`.

## Credits

This website was made possible with [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) and [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/). While both tools made things a lot easier, this was still my first experience with front-end development, and I'm satisfied with what I've made. You can view the source code for this website [here](https://github.com/SanguineChameleon/sanguinechameleon.github.io).
